git : It is a version control system. Helps in keep tracking of the files changes, compare changes, revert back etc.

It is a distributed version control system

why git?

- Free
- open source
- scalable
- super fast

github : Used for hosting git repo's, cloud/based

without git we can't work with github.


Local Repo : working developing locally writing code, adding files, commiting the changes.

staging area : An intermediate area where commits can be formatted and reviewed before completing the commit.

push : send a change to another repository (may require permission)
pull : grab a change from a repository


git add (add files to the staging area)
git commit (moves files from staging area and after push it stores the changes permenentely to the git repository)


files are not addressed by names in git database, eveything is content addressed. it is named as SHA1 hash of that file

A tree is a binary file that store references to blobs and tree which are also named as SHA1 hash of the tree object


Commits

commits hold the current state of the repository. A commit also named by SHA1 hash.
commit object = a node of the linked list
every commit object has a pointer to the parent commit object
From a given commit, you can traverse back by looking at the parent pointer to view the history of the commit
If a commit has multiple parent commits, then that particular commit has been created by merging two branches


Git commands

clone  : brings repo from github to local 
add  :  track your files and changes in git
commit : save your files in git
push   : upload changes to github
pull  : download changes from github



git init : initializes the empty repository (.git folder will be created)

git status : gives the status of the file whether added to staging area or not

git add .  : adds all files to the staging area.

git commit -m "message" : commits our staging files to the repo

[Still our files are present in the local repo]

To add remote origin

git remote add origin https://github.com/Shankargopu/demo_repo.git   [git remote add name url.git]. 

To check whether it is added

git remote -v   (gives the added remote urls)

git push origin master (git push nameofremoteurlAdded branchName]




git config --global user.email "bhavanishankargopu@gmail.com"   //sets the user email for our git account
git config --global user.name "bhavani shankar"  //sets the user name for our git account






git clone  url (clones the github repo into our local repository)

after made changes

git add .
git commit -m "message"
git push


setup ssh authnetication


ssh-keygen -t rsa -b 4096 -C "bhavanishankargopu@gmail.com"   (this commands generate private/public key pair)

keep public key in the github settings under ssh key section

than use
git clone ssh url.


->Create new branch

git checkout -b feature_update__files

-> swith to new branch

git checkout main

-> see the difference in 2 branches

git diff feature_update__files  (gives the differences in main and feature_update_files)


push the current branch and raise PR we PR approves than changes will get automatically merged to source branch


git log --merge : produce the list of commits that are causing the conflict.
git diff  : identify the diff b/w the states repos or files.
git checkout : used to undo the changes made to the file, or for changing branches.
git reset --mixed : used to undo changes to the working directory and staging area
git merge --abort : Helps in exiting the merge process and returning back to the state before the merging began
git rest : Used at the time of merge conflict to reset the conflicted files to their original state

delete branch : git branch -d feature_update_files

if file is modified one 
we can just add and commit with single command

git commit -am "updated the file"

to push the changes along with the local branch

git push -u origin hotfix   (specify the -u flag which indicates the upstream the branch)






















